BIMSTEC
To gain competitive edge in the external economy, the economic diplomacy of countries has gained considerable importance with the objective of ensuring better market and investment opportunities. One such mechanism is of regional and sub regional cooperation which if strengthened purposefully creates win-win condition for all.
It was within this broad policy framework that India launched her look east policy in 1991 and that India and Thailand took initiative in 1997 for the EST. Of Bay of Bengal initiative for economic cooperation (BIMSTEC).
 It’s a sub regional association for cooperation among member countries and may be viewed as a part of India’s look east policy which initially included four members, Thailand, India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh later joined by Myanmar, Nepal and Bhutan.
The membership of BIMSTEC is cross cutting with that of ASEAN and SAARC. Hence it acts as a bridge between south Asia and south east Asia and hence it becomes one of the most distinctive feature of BIMSTEC.
Currently there are two organizational mechanisms to carry on the activities.
1.	Ministerial meeting- held on annual basis, consisting of foreign ministers of member countries.
2.	 Summit meeting- consists of apex leaders of members of countries.
The first summit held in 2008, at New Delhi resolved to enhance connectivity through land, air and sea routes for the promotion of cooperation on the field of culture, tourism and people to people contact.
The third summit held on 4 March 2014 at nay pyi taw, new capital city of Myanmar. Many points were highlighted. They also agreed to implement BIMSTEC poverty plan of action on poverty alleviation.
During the third summit, three agreement were also signed to strengthen the organizational structure and cooperative mechanism-
1.	Memorandum of association on the establishment of the BIMSTEC permanent secretariat at Dhaka, Bangladesh with summit/ nakandala of Sri Lanka as the first secretary general.
2.	Memorandum of association for establishment of a BIMSTEC center for weather and climate at noida, India.
3.	Memorandum of understanding for the establishment of the BIMSTEC cultural industries commission at Bhutan.
Though established with the aim of all round socio economic development of this region through cooperative mechanism, BIMSTEC wasn’t able to achieve the desired result due to some of its inherent weaknesses-
a.	Outward economic linkage of member states. 
b.	Some of the member countries are plagued with political unrest which hampers their full cooperation with each other for ex. Bangladesh, Nepal, Thailand, and Myanmar.
c.	Insufficient or undevelopment of infrastructures for implementing programs of developed cooperation and poor connectivity.
d.	Presence of alternate mechanisms for regional cooperation which undermine the necessity and importance of BIMSTEC.
e.	Organizational weaknesses.
Focus should be given to early end of FTA in goods etc. To India, BIMSTEC provides additional significant window for the successful implementation of her look east policy. India also needs to harness the potential of BIMSTEC as a bridge between south Asia and south east Asia where India has vital strategic stakes. Currently India has given priority to promote development of connectivity in this region.
													- Harish Rana