TERRORISM
Causes of the increase in terrorism in various parts of the country and failure of govt. in combating this problem
A terrorist is a person who produces fear in one’s mind by physical, mental or psychological means. In past years, terrorism has reached to its maximum especially in last two-three decades. There are many reasons which tell us that terrorism is not for a good cause. The terrorist are generally those men /women who are not happy with what’s going on in their life. One of the main reasons is the govt. policies or lack of political will. Terrorism can be controlled by various means if the people are dedicated to stop it. But unfortunately, lack of interest in involving the solution for this major threat is more. Govt. is majorly involved in just criticizing the terrorist for whatever mischief they are doing. Govt. should fix a private meeting with chief of that group involved to know what are the reasons that they are unhappy with the policies.  One more thing govt. can do is to involve with them inn political dialogues rather to challenge them to do something which will harm the common people. One more reason of the increase in terrorism is that the intelligence agencies that are given the responsibilities to handle them, lack of coordination between themselves. One intelligence agency takes a step with out informing the others, whereas at the same time others are planning for another plan which in time lacks coordination and develops a hate spirit for each other. To improve this some best officers should be hand picker from each agency and a single agency should be made which will perform all the operations to fight terrorism.
One more reason is the failures of diplomats in the talks held between the terrorist and them. The main aim of the talks is to deal with the terrorist without any violent means and in a peaceful manner. But their failure to satisfy them is also a major cause inn the increase of terrorism. Acc. to my views, the main cause is the lack of political will in dealing with terrorism as the govt. plays a very major role in any operation against them. Generally politicians are interested in all other activities expect some like this, border firings etc. one major step like talks between them an the terrorist should be held regularly so that no harm to people should be there. Some major operations should be performed which are issued and approved by politicians against the terrorist so that they may fear the consequences of their future activities.  
												-  Akash

							
