POLICE REFORMS
It is known fact that the image of the police has fallen into an abyss of lawlessness in recent years. People want an efficient police which serves them in need. The poor want reforms because  they are the crude victims of oppresion and dictates of the powerfull,rich and so they need true service of the police for their rescue. The national human right commission demand refors because  it is overwhelmed by public complaints against the police that range from death,rape and torture in the custodyto the refusal of the file. FIR,manipulation coercion and threats to witness and demend for moneyto register or neglect a case.
Despite demand of all quarters and nesscity to reform the police force no convrite or resulting action has so far initiated by any govt.since independence. Every successive govt. avoid so far the reforms in the police force indicates the obonion belief that if the reforms be made the benefits being derived by them from  the police will no more  be available .
Necessity of a new police act is undoubtly being felt in all segments of the society. It needs  to be systemised by a new statuary framework,that fixes the accauntability and responsibility,makes it certain that the chains of command lies within the police,their promotions,posting and punishment don't depend upon the patronage of political parties.
In 1977 the National police commitee recommended analysing carefully the problems of the police ane pressure faced by the police force. The rebera commitee also gave it's recommendation along similiar lines to NCP,as also the Padmanabha Committee . The Vohra Committe indicated in very clear turns that the police politicians mafia nexus is ruining the governance.
Objective of the reforems are the most significant aspect of the proposed reforms is intended to be the mechanism so as to end external influence as the law enforcing body and improve the standard of police personnal.
The aim is to make police efficient ,effective,people friendly and accountable by ending corruption and breaking the cop's nexus with anti-social elements.
The officers an operational duties in the field like IGP in charge of zone DIG of range and SP in district would havea minimum fixed texture oftwo years,unless promoted removed on disciplinary grounds,found involved in corruptional on criminal cases.
Whateveris argued by anybody it is dispatable that reforms. In police is the need of our. It is ridiculous  that our police force is still being governed by outdated police act 1861.
If police reforms are delayed further ,there will be no end to the trauma of the ordinary people ,especially those ho have no political support.
        												- Aman                                                               