CCE
The central board of secondary education introduced a new grading and assessment continuous and comprehensive evaluation. It was introduced by the ex HRD minister Mr. Kapil Sibbal. CCE promotes creative streak among the children, thus making their studies interactive. CCE is for classes 9 and 10. Circular no 39 dated 20.9.2009. CCE aims to provide regular assessment of the scholastic and co scholastic aspects of developments over the total span of learning time under the new system, themark given exams will be replaced by grades. It not only focuses on academics but also in extra co curricular activities. This system consists of two constituents, name  SA and FA. SA are held twice per session. There will be two terms for both classes. The first term will be held in April-Sept. and second  from Oct. to March. Each term will have 2 FA in the form of test, quizzes, etc. SA will be taken in the form of a test at the end of term, there will be no unit test and the overall percentage will be taken by the average marks in all the FA and SA. These assessments help in all round development of these students throughout the year. And the students are assessed according to their performance in these assessments. The main advantages of CCE is the a student if has done well in FA and hasn’t done well in SA then he may get an upgrade in the grades of his marks.
It has also reduced rivalry amongst students for gaining positions and by the introduction of grading system, students have been scoring good marks. The CGPA system grades points on the basis of grades. 10 points for A1, 9 for A2  and so on divided by the number of subjects.
Also despite of its many advantages CCE also has many disadvantages such as students lose their grade by a few marks. Poor performance in FA  may degrade the performance of SA.
Therefore CCE is overall an act introduced for the betterment of students so that they score well and along with that promote their creative thinking.
												- Ankur