Relevance of Planning Commission
What B.R. Ambedekar said about constitution is relevant as well. A bad constitution can turn out to be good if people working it are good. Similarly a bunch of bad people can make a mess of a good constitution. However while insisting on the planning commission irrelevance, one must resis questioning the motives of its creators as well as the competence of those who adorned its offices. The commission congenital infirmities have proved to be too much to overcome for the very competent and conscientious people who have tried to make it work over the decades. Experience has proved that it is not   workable consider the following points. First the commission adversely affected both our federal structure   and cabinet system of governance. It was created soon after inauguration of the constitution and promptly went against both its letter and spirit. The center encroached upon the states domain enumerated in the seventh schedule of the constitution where in must matters crying for social and economic planning are entrusted with the states.  The commission becomes a hand maiden of the PM who is its  chairman which the union cabinet having no role in its working. That’s why one may recall John Matthai resigned as the first finance minister terming the commission the super cabinet. The deputy chairperson of commission approving state plans and doling but money to chief minister is an annual spectacles. We tend to forget that the money the center then gifts to state is actually states money, and the whole exercise is a mockery of the finance commission created by the constitution to split resources between the center and states. Secondly ,the commission ideology of central planning with socialist flavor is anathema to constitutional ideology of decentralization and the liberal framework of governance. The founding further relegated planning to the section on how justiciable directive price in the constitution they were also clear that center had no role in determining now state governed themselves. India need a far more effective planning process. The sooner we overhaul over antiguated process, the faster we will reach the goal.

													-Anurag(3835) 
