Communal Violence
India is a secular state. Secular means non-religious but in the context of Indian polity, it means coexistence of all relegions without any kind of discrimination. Though our constitution safeguards for the minorities, the actual implementation of  the provision is a complex on. Indians are generally known for their non-violence, tolerance, and brotherhood character that is why a number of religions have flourished in Indian society. After the traumatic partition and bloodshed during the formation of Pakistan, developments have given many political parties several inflammable issuesfor exploiting communal passions for their political gains. Not only the politicians but also the religious heads of minority and majority community instead of trying to mitigate communal frenzy, flamed it up with their speeches and actions. The destruction of babri masjid and burning alive hindu ras sevaks in Godhra (Gujrat) and the incidents of violence in Gujrat after the godhra massacre have torn the secular fabric of Indian democracy  to uncountable pieces. One incident after another creates more hatred, more incidents and more communalism in country.
Such communal riot are blot in name of our motherland. It is the duty of the government to  provide minorities with security of life and property. The security forces responsible for maintaining law and order should pe impartial in the discharge of their duty. Even greater is the responsibility of the leader and responsibility of the leaders and statesmen’s of the country. Instead of pointing out the differences between the religions, they should stress upon the similarities of the religion. Social workers should come forward and try to make an atmosphere of peace, friendship, and harmony. School and college text books should be suitable prepared so as to promote an atmosphere of harmony and mutual understanding. The media of mass communication should stress upon communal harmony as they are the most influential media.
Conclusively lets hope that Indians rise above their communal differences and and india progresses as a united nation in times to come.
                        										-Aditya Sanwal